# INFg_Mtb_Ahmed_2022
## Mycobacterium tuberculosis senses host Interferon- $\gamma$ via the membrane protein MmpL10 
 
## Author list:
Mohamed Ahmed, Jared Mackenzie, Liku Tezera, Robert Krause, Barry Truebody, Diana Garay-Baquero, Andres Vallejo, Katya Govender, John Adamson1, Hayden Fisher, 4 Jonathan W. Essex, Salah Mansour, Paul Elkington, Adrie JC Steyn, Alasdair Leslie
 
 
## Abstract:
*Mycobacterium tuberculosis* (*Mtb*) is one of the most successful human pathogens. Several cytokines are known to increase virulence of bacterial pathogens, leading us to investigate whether Interferon- $\gamma$ (IFN- $\gamma$), a central regulator of the immune defense against *Mtb*, has a direct effect on the bacteria. We found that recombinant and T-cell derived IFN- $\gamma$ rapidly induced a dose-dependent increase in the oxygen consumption rate (OCR) of *Mtb*, consistent with increased bacterial respiration. This was not observed in attenuated Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG), and did not occur for other cytokines tested, including TNF- $\gamma$. IFN- $\gamma$ binds to the cell surface of intact *Mtb*, but not BCG. Mass spectrometry identified mycobacterial membrane protein large 10 (MmpL10) as the transmembrane binding partner of IFN- $\gamma$, supported by molecular modelling studies. IFN- $\gamma$ binding and the OCR response was absent in *Mtb* $\Delta$ mmpl10 strain and restored by complementation with wildtype mmpl10. RNA-sequencing and RT-PCR of *Mtb* exposed to IFN- $\gamma$ revealed a distinct transcriptional profile, including genes involved in virulence. In a 3D granuloma model, IFN- $\gamma$ promoted *Mtb* growth, which was lost in the *Mtb* $\Delta$ mmpl10 strain and restored by complementation, supporting the involvement of MmpL10 in the response to IFN- $\gamma$. Finally, IFN- $\gamma$ addition resulted in sterilization of *Mtb* cultures treated with isoniazid, indicating clearance of phenotypically resistant bacteria that persist in the presence of drug alone. Together our data are the first description of a mechanism allowing Mtb to respond to host immune activation that may be important in the immunopathogenesis of TB and have use in novel eradication strategies. 
